# 0.6.4 First release of 2025

## New versions out

For the early adopters there is not a lot of changes in this version (from version 0.6.3).
As this is the first official release in a very long time this post is focused more changes since earlier version 0.4.x and 0.5.x.

## Breaking changes

* Versioning is now semantic this means 3 digits (0.6.4) instead of 4 (0.4.3.2).
* dot-net support removed.
* lua support removed (I am not sure if anyone used it, so let me know if so and I can probably add it back).
* CheckPowerShell is removed (You can still use powershell scripts with the external scripts module).
* The Web UI is a bit more limited than it was before, but all basic functionality like updating config and checking status is still there. This is something that will be restored soon.
* Secondary installer has been removed (as we now have GitHub build pipelines you can easily build your own installer if you need it).
* Automatic crash reporting has been removed, instead we build and publish symbols to GitHub so you can debug crashes yourself or send me the crash dump files.

## Dependency updates

All dependencies have been updated to recent versions, I say recent here as this is project that has been ongoing for over a year so some dependencies are not the latest versions.
This has been very time consuming and I think the versions we have now are recent enough to be useful for most people.
There are still some dependencies where we have not updated to the latest version but I think we are in a good place now.
And the focus will be on making some architectural changes to allow removing some dependencies and then in a few months time we will update the dependencies again.

Going forward here we need to be realistic. 
NSClient++ works on All version fo Windows since Windows XP and not many dependencies support such an old version of Windows.
So likely at some we will have to create two versions;
1. one with limited support for old Windows and more modern dependencies.
2. one with limited feature support b ut support for old Windows.

Likely this will be done with specific module early on and then later on we will have two separate versions.

| Dependency       | Version | Date        |
|------------------|---------|-------------|
| Boost            | 1.82.0  | 2023-04-15  |
| OpenSSL          | 1.1.1q  | 2022-09-15  |
| Python           | 3.11.0  | 2022-10-24  |
| Crypto++         | 8.8.0   | 2023-05-25  |
| Protocol Buffers | 21.6    | 2022-09-14  |

There are some other dependencies as well, but most of them are "copied" and as such hard to version...
This will also be resolved going forward. 

## New features

* NRPE 3 and 4 is now supported
* TLS 1.3 is now supported

## Future plans

(This list is not ordered)

* [ ] Improve the new Web UI (add wizards to simplify configuration).
* [ ] Upgrade checks to for modern Windows.
* [ ] Code cleanups and modernizations.
* [ ] Automatic updates (or possibly a check to check for new versions)
* [ ] More Unit tests
* [ ] Overhaul and deprecating/removal of outdated features
* [ ] Rewrite some modules and libraries in RUST

Please do let me know any specific things you would like to see!
There is a forum thread for this release here: [0.6.4 First release of 2025](https://github.com/mickem/nscp/discussions/858)

## Download

[You can download the new version over on GitHub: 0.6.4](https://github.com/mickem/nscp/releases/0.6.4){ .md-button }

// Michael Medin