---
date:
    created: 2025-08-13
---

# 0.9.14 New release

## REST API updates

Removed some old (deprecated) rest API endpoints so hence forth use the versioned apis under `/api`.
The main goal here was to remove the outdated json library and the protobuf to json conversion.

> The old check endpoints have NOT been removed to retain compatibility with Icinga and similar tools.

In addition to this I have also added numerous integration test to help to keep the APIs stable.

## Installer improvments

The installer has been updated a lot to behave more predictably and in general work better.
I have also added numerous tests to the installer to ensure less accidental breaking changes in the future.

Should not impact anything but instead of a dedicated Json library we now use boost to reduce number of dependencies.
Removed sample config from installer (as you can easily generate the config i removed it from the installer).

## Web UI improvements

The web interface has gotten a medium overhaul improving settings and queries.

* You can now change setting under modules.
* Settings now have widgets for boolean settings
* Settings view now show all settings not just changed ones.
* You can now use " in queries when executing from the Web UI so "filter=1 > 2" is now possible,

## Modern TLS Support for remote settings

Remote settings via https (TLS) has been improved to now support TLS 1.3 as well as certificate validation.
This is configure in boot.ini (NOT nsclient.ini as that's the file loaded remotely).

## Sensitive keys

Added the ability to mark keys as sensitive which can then be configured to be stored in Windows credential manager.
Meaning you now have a way to keep secrets and passwords out of the config file.

## Restored Linux builds

While Linux support is a work in progress it is now possible to build on windows and piplines for building on windows.
"Soon(TM)" I will add some packages and config files and such to make it more usable.

### Bug-fixes

Numerous bug fixes and minor enhancments.

## Download

[You can download the new version from GitHub](https://github.com/mickem/nscp/releases/0.9.14){ .md-button }

// Michael Medin
