---
date:
    created: 2025-04-01
---
# 0.7.0 Improved support for modern Windows

Changes since 0.6.9 (last official release).

### Modern Windows detection for `check_os_version`
We now use the build number to detect OS versions above Windows 10.
This means if you want to actually check that a version is above Windows 10 you need to include build number in your check.

```
check_os_version warn="version lt 10 or build lt 26100"
L        cli OK: OK: Windows 11 24H2 (10.0.26100)
```


### Enhancements and experimental support for Pdh based `check_cpu`.

This version has some PDH (Performance data Helpers) fixes and improved error handling and introduces an experimental new option to switch `check_cpu` to use PDH instead of APIs.
This is experimental and intended to solve the issue with incorrect, negative or zero values on some machines with more than 12 cores.
The main issue is that PDH is messy. It is localized and has historically been prone to strange issues and errors such as counter index getting corrupted and similar issues so lets ee how this works before making it the default.

To switch change the following configuration:
```ini
[/settings/system/windows]
use pdh for cpu=true
```

Check CPU load values now uses more standard keywords:
* idle
* user
* system

Old keywords are still retained for compatibility, so this is a non-breaking change.

We also added a short-hand option `cores` for expanding all cores:
```
check_cpu cores
L        cli OK: OK: CPU load is ok.
L        cli  Performance data: '0 5m'=58%;80;90 '1 5m'=47%;80;90 '10 5m'=56%;80;90 '11 5m'=42%;80;90 '2 5m'=59%;80;90 '3 5m'=49%;80;90 '4 5m'=56%;80;90 '5 5m'=45%;80;90 '6 5m'=57%;80;90 '7 5m'=43%;80;90 '8 5m'=57%;80;90 '9 5m'=39%;80;90 'total 5m'=51%;80;90 '0 1m'=65%;80;90 '1 1m'=52%;80;90 '10 1m'=65%;80;90 '11 1m'=48%;80;90 '2 1m'=64%;80;90 '3 1m'=52%;80;90 '4 1m'=62%;80;90 '5 1m'=65%;80;90 '6 1m'=70%;80;90 '7 1m'=51%;80;90 '8 1m'=61%;80;90 '9 1m'=46%;80;90 'total 1m'=58%;80;90 '0 5s'=65%;80;90 '1 5s'=46%;80;90 '10 5s'=56%;80;90 '11 5s'=42%;80;90 '2 5s'=70%;80;90 '3 5s'=57%;80;90 '4 5s'=52%;80;90 '5 5s'=45%;80;90 '6 5s'=70%;80;90 '7 5s'=40%;80;90 '8 5s'=48%;80;90 '9 5s'=41%;80;90 'total 5s'=53%;80;90
```


### Lua

The biggest new change here is the re-added Lua support.
The Lua support has been changed a bit so it might not be 100% compatible with old scripts.
As there is not much documentation for Lua scripting, I plan to add that soon.
And doing that I will highlight the main differences.

> One thing still missing in Lua is protocol buffer support
> This means you can only create "simple function" is returning code, string and performance data. But given the nature of Lua I think this is acceptable for the time being.

But in general "optional parameters" to functions are no longer optional.
So for instance:

```lua
local reg = Registry()
reg:simple_function('lua_test', test_func_query)

local settings = Settings()
str = settings:get_string('/settings/lua/scripts', 'testar')

local core = Core()
code, msg, perf = core:simple_query('lua_test')
```

Will now require to be written as:
```lua
local reg = Registry()
reg:simple_function('lua_test', test_func_query, '')

local settings = Settings()
str = settings:get_string('/settings/lua/scripts', 'testar', '')

local core = Core()
code, msg, perf = core:simple_query('lua_test', {})
```

The other change is that construction object is now generally done with `new` where before it was done with various functions like `Core()` here however I have retained backwards compatibility so both should be possible.

But in general the quality of error handling and such is much better and I will as I said expand the documentation and add some more examples and such.

### `check_mk`

As a side note experimental `check_mk` support was also added back.
This is experimental in so far as I have only verified it with NSClient++ not actual `check_mk` so will need to look into that next.
Also note that `check_mk` is experimental currently it only provides the version and agent name.
If there is genuin interest, this could easily be extended so please do let me know...

The way `check_mk` works is that the module only provides the communication layer and the data provided is provided by a Lua script (hence requiring Lua support).
So the current script looks like so:
```lua
function server_process(packet)
	s = section.new()
	s:set_title("check_mk")
	s:add_line("Version: 0.0.1")
	s:add_line("Agent: nsclient++")
	s:add_line("AgentOS: Windows")
	packet:add_section(s)
end

reg = mk.new()
reg:server_callback(server_process)
```

So here we need to extend the packet to include more data and other sections for proper `check_mk` support.

### Installer:
* Removed padded version numbers from installer (this caused issues with upgrade)
* Installer is now built with openssl presumably fixing remote config via https (have not verified this yet)
* Enabled WebUI by default in installer (open can still be used to disable)
* Added option to disable installing the service in installer

### Security:
* Added option to configure ciphers in the web server (default is TLS 1.2 but now you can set 1.3 if you prefer)
* Default TLS (NRPE et al.) is now 1.2+ instead of only 1.2
* Improved some options and added docs for using NRPE with certificates and Nagios…
* Installer now installs the NRPE 2048 bit DH key

### Other changes

* Fixed `check_nscp_verison` parsing new semantic version
* Added error messages for login failure via web browser
* Updated build instructions
* Fixed integer overflow in check_files.vbs script
* Fixed status in summary text not matching actual summary when no results were found in filters (see `UNKNOWN: OK` in this example)
```
check_drivesize "filter=drive='foobar'"
L        cli UNKNOWN: OK: No drives found
L        cli  Performance data:
```
* Fixed numerous spelling and grammar issue in the documentation.
* Removed breakpad (replaced by restart watchdog and log files, but wont create and submit crash dumps (instead windows creates dumps which can be used))
* Bumped dependencies


### Dependencies

| Library  | Version |
|----------|---------|
| Boost    | 1.82.0  |
| Cryptopp | 8.9.0   |
| Lua      | 5.4.7   |
| OpenSSL  | 1.1.1w  |
| Protobuf | 21.12   |
| TinyXml2 | 10.1.0  |

## Download

[You can download the new version from GitHub](https://github.com/mickem/nscp/releases/0.7.0){ .md-button }

// Michael Medin
