Title: 0.3.3 Released (and updated)
Author: mickem
Status: published

New build just out (not on sourceforge yet, lets see if there are any
other minor fixes first). The updated version has a few minor quick
bug-fixes. A few new things but mainly a bug fix: \* Fixed a crash when
parsing external commands. \* Installer (i hope) will be better (in so
far as w32 and x64 are "different"). \* Namespace support for WMI. \*
Some issues with CheckDriveSize has been fixed. \* New checks to
CheckHelpers (mainly for NSCA)

     2008-07-02 MickeM ! 0.3.3 Released (take 2) + Added new option alias to controll the name for performance counters when using checkfile use like so: checkfile alias=foo file=C:boot.ini filter-written=>1000d syntax=gurka MaxCrit=1 * Fixed issue with performance data and CheckDriveSize (when using "Min" bounds) ! 0.3.3 Released (take 1) * Fixed some issues (?) with the installer the w32 and x64 are now different components (GUIDs). 2008-07-01 MickeM + Added new option (namespace) to CheckWMI and CheckWMIValue use like so: CheckWMI namespace=rootcimv2 MaxCrit=3 MinWarn=1 "Query:load=Select * from win32_Processor" 2008-06-30 MickeM * Fixed issue with CheckFile and performance data ( #156 ) + Added option (InvalidStatus) to CheckCounter to allow other then UNKNOWN return state when counters are missing ( #167 ). *NOTICE* this is all reasons (so if the counter is missing or some such the same will happen not just when the instance is missing) Message will reflect reason. * Fixed issue in the arraybuffer (one of the plit functions had a problem with multiple chars of the same) ( #190 ) 2008-06-25 MickeM * Fixed issue with CheckDriveSize and CheckAllOthers (#188) 2008-06-24 MickeM + Added new check (to CheckHelpers): CheckOK: Just return OK (anything passed along will be used as a message). + Added new check (to CheckHelpers): CheckWARNING: Just return WARN (anything passed along will be used as a message). + Added new check (to CheckHelpers): CheckCRITICAL: Just return CRIT (anything passed along will be used as a message). + Added new check (to CheckHelpers): CheckVersion: Just return the nagios version (along with OK status). * Better error messages in the check service thingy. 2008-06-18 MickeM * Fixed an issue in regards to reading the return packet in the in the NRPEClient (now it works). Before only the first 1024 bytes were used. 2008-06-15 MickeM * Applied patches from Jeff Goldschrafe  + CheckDriveSize now uses "all drives" when no drive is specified. * Fixed misspellt Container 2008-06-14 MickeM * Fixed error message from external commands (better reporting now) 

Changes in the rather broken 0.3.2:

     2008-05-14 MickeM * Fixed memoryleak in the service checker. I am really sorry I usualy write better code then this. 2008-04-03 MickeM * Moved COM init to "core" (from WMI module) + Added new Check command: CheckTaskSched Use like so: CheckTaskSched +filter-exit-code==1 ShowAll MaxWarn=1 MaxCrit=1 2008-03-21 MickeM + Added command line support for process checks New option: cmdLine will toggle so full command lines are used instead of just process names. + Added regular expression matching to process checks New option: match=regexp (match=strings is the default and "old" way) + Added substring matching to process checks New option: match=substr (match=strings is the default and "old" way) This is *NOT* case blind so might be hard to use, plan to add case blindness to it in the future. : Sample command: check_nt ... -v PROCSTATE -l cmdLine,match=regexp,.*exp.* -d SHOWALL * Ohh yeah... it is 2008 this year... not 2007, fixed a few entries in the :) - BREAKING CHANGE! -- Removed TOOLHELPER API as PSAPI is simpler and toolhelp is really only useful on w9x (which I don't officially support) 2008-03-20 MickeM + Added host-lookupos for NSCA server (#149) + Added option (cache_hostname=1|0) to cache the NSCA host name (Ie. only lookup once) * Fixed service check: check_nt -v SERVICESTATE -l CheckAll so it works as advertised (#150) * Fixed issue with check_nt MEMUSE/CPULOAD/UPTIME if something is "broken" they will now return an error instead of "0". (#134) Added option debug_skip_data_collection to simulate this (just for kicks) 2008-03-18 MickeM * Added some more error messages to the NSCA module * Added support for arguments to LUA module. syntax: function debug (command, args) -- args is a table with all arguments 
