Title: 0.4.1 RC2 out (and I am back now)
Author: mickem
Tags: back, certification, release-candidate
Status: published

Hello, Lets start off with the NSClient++ related stuff: Just posted a
new RC (0.4.1.62) which fixes a number of issues. There is still the
issue with check\_nt sockets crashing if you encounter this issue please
send me crash dumps and logs as well as the commands your using and I
shall investigate it. Changelog:

     * Fixed issue with loading performance counters (check_cpu) * Fixed default service name (nscp) * CheckWMI: Added support for lists of integers 

Also the reason there have been no updates in a while is that I was
getting some Oracle certifications (which are now complete (ish)). So
now I am am a: \[\[Image(O\_Certified Specialist\_clr.gif)\]\]
\[\[Image(OCE\_clr.gif)\]\] The certifications I now hold are: \*
1Z0-451: Oracle Service Oriented Architecture Infrastructure
Implementation Certified Expert \* 1Z0-543: Oracle Application
Integration Architecture 11g Certified Implementation Specialist So if
ever you need an Oracle SOA or AIA (not so) specialist feel free to call
me :) With hindsight I have to say the certifications were pretty crappy
some 60-70 questions multiple choice where the answer was rather obvious
in addition to this the passing score was 60% so you could almost have
guessed your way through it :) so cant really say it deserved the 3
weeks I spent studying... Could probably have passed with a lot less
studying. But alas now it is done and I am certified so my boss is
happy... // Michael Medin
